Ethernet's success in local area networks (LANs) is fueling the efforts to extend its reach to cover metro and long-haul networks. This new Ethernet is refereed to as Carrier Ethernet. Among the various transport infrastructures for realizing Carrier Ethernet, wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) optical network is a strong candidate for this purpose. Optical transmission rates per channel are increasing from 10 to 40 Gb/s and even 100 Gb/s, and they can also coexist in the same fiber. Along with the flexibility associated with such a network with mixed-line rates (MLR), signal-related constraints at high rates become a challenge for cost-efficient routing. Among these issues is the maximum nonregenerated optical distance that a signal can travel before its quality degrades or maximum transmission range (TR). TR is rate-dependent: The higher the rate, the shorter the range. While high-rate pipes may require signal regeneration to restore the signal's quality, they support more traffic and, hence, can save resources. We study the problem of cost-efficient routing of multi-bit-rate (1/10/40/100 Gb/s) Ethernet tunnels using MLR over a carrier's WDM optical network with signal-transmission-range constraints. We studied the effect of TR for mixed-rate signals (10/40/100 Gb/s) on the network's cost to determine the optimal TR of each bit rate. We present an analytical model based on a mixed-integer linear program (MILP) to determine the optimal TR of a small network. Since MILP has scalability constraints that makes it hard or sometimes impossible to solve for real network topologies, we propose a graph-based solution that constructs a mixed-line-rate auxiliary (MLR-AUX) graph to capture the network's heterogeneity and a weight-assignment approach that allows the routing to be cost-efficient. Our algorithms were tested on a U.S. nationwide network topology. We found that it is possible to reduce the network's cost by using short TR and that the optimal TR depends strongly on traffic characteristics and on the TR values of different bit-rate signals.