As an answer to the disabled community’s odyssey to gain access to adaptable, modular, multilingual, cheap and sustainable Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) products, we propose the use of the ITHACA framework. It is a software environment for building component-based AAC applications, grounded on the Design for All principles and a hybrid---communityandcommercial---Open Source development model. ITHACA addresses the developers, the vendors, as well as the people who use AAC. We introduce a new viewpoint on the AAC product design-develop-distribute lifecycle, and a novel way to search-select-modify-maintain the AAC aid. ITHACA provides programmers with a set of tools and reusable Open Source code for building AAC software components. It also facilitates AAC product vendors to put together sophisticated applications using the available on the Web, independently premanufactured, free or commercial software parts. Furthermore, it provides people who use AAC with a variety of compatible AAC software products which incorporate multimodal, user-tailored interfaces that can fulfill their changing needs. The ITHACA architecture and the proposed fusion of past and current approaches, trends and technologies are explained. ITHACA has been successfully applied by implementing a family of AAC products, based on interchangeable components. Several ready to use ITHACA-based components, including on-screen keyboards, Text-to-Speech, symbol selection sets, e-chatting, emailing, and scanning-based input, as well as four complete communication aids addressing different user cases have been developed. This demonstration showed good acceptance of the ITHACA applications and substantial improvement of the end users’ communication skills. Developers’ experience on working in ITHACA’s Open Source projects was also positively evaluated. More importantly, the potential contribution of the component-based framework and Open Source development model combination to the AAC community emerged.