E-commerce regulations are usually embedded in mutually agreed upon contracts. Generally, these contracts enumerate agents authorized to participate in transactions, and spell out such things like rights and obligations of each partner, and terms and conditions of the trade. An enterprise may be concurrently bound by a set of different contracts that regulate the trading relations with its various clients and suppliers. This set is dynamic because new contracts are constantly being established, and previously established contracts end, are annulled, or revised.We argue that existent access control mechanisms cannot adequately support the large number of regulations embedded in disparate, evolving contracts. To deal with this problem we propose to use certified policies. A certified policy (CP) is obtained by expressing contract terms regarding access and control regulations in a formal, interpretable language, and by having them digitally signed by a proper authority. In this framework, an agent making a request to a server presents to the server such a CP, together with other relevant credentials. A valid certified policy can then be used as the authorization policy for the request in question.It is the thesis of this article that this approach would make several aspects of contract enforcement more manageable and more efficient: (a) deployment---certified policies may be stored on certificate repositories from where they can be retrieved as needed, (b) annulment---if a contract is annulled, the corresponding CP should be invalidated; the latter can be conveniently supported by certificate revocation, and (c) revision---revision of contract terms can be done by publishing a new certified policy and by revoking the old one. The proposed approach is practical in that it does not require any modification of the current certificate infrastructure and only minor modifications to servers.In this article, we propose a language for stating contract terms and present several formal examples of certified policies. We describe the implementation of the enforcement mechanism and present experimental performance results.