The Unique Games Conjecture (UGC) has emerged in recent years as the starting point for several optimal inapproximability results. While fornoneof these results a reverse reduction to Unique Games is known, the assumption of bijective projections in the Label Cover instance nevertheless seems critical in these proofs. In this work, we bypass the need for UGC assumption in inapproximability results for two geometric problems, obtaining a tight NP-hardness result in each case.The first problem, known asLpSubspace Approximation, is a generalization of the classic least squares regression problem. Here, the input consists of a set of pointsX&equals; &lcub;α1, … , αm&rcub; ⊆ Rnand a parameterk(possibly depending onn). The goal is to find a subspaceHofRnof dimensionkthat minimizes the &ell;pnorm of the Euclidean distances to the points inX. Forp&equals; 2,k&equals;n− 1, this reduces to the least squares regression problem, while forp&equals; ∞,k&equals; 0 it reduces to the problem of finding a ball of minimum radius enclosing all the points. We show that for any fixedp∈ (2, ∞), and fork&equals;n− 1, it is NP-hard to approximate this problem to within a factor of γp− &epsi; for constant &epsi; > 0, where γpis thepth norm of a standard Gaussian random variable. This matches the γpapproximation algorithm obtained by Deshpande, Tulsiani, and Vishnoi who also showed the same hardness result under the UGC.The second problem we study is the relatedLpQuadratic Grothendieck Maximization Problem, considered by Kindler, Naor, and Schechtman. Here, the input is a multilinear quadratic form ∑ni,j&equals; 1aijxixjand the goal is to maximize the quadratic form over the &ell;punit ball, namely, allxwith ∑ni&equals; 1&verbar;xi&verbar;p&les; 1. The problem is polynomial time solvable forp&equals; 2. We show that for any constantp∈ (2, ∞), it is NP-hard to approximate the quadratic form to within a factor of γ2p− &epsi; for any &epsi; > 0. The same hardness factor was shown under the UGC by Kindler et al. We also obtain a γ2p-approximation algorithm for the problem using the convex relaxation of the problem defined by Kindler et al. A γ2papproximation algorithm has also been independently obtained by Naor and Schechtman.These are thefirstapproximation thresholds, proven under P ≠ NP, that involve the Gaussian random variable in a fundamental way. Note that the problem statements themselves do not explicitly involve the Gaussian distribution.