We give new solutions to the Searchable Partial Sums with Indels problem. Given a sequence ofnk-bit numbers, we present a structure takingkn+o(kn) bits of space, able of performing operationssum,search,insert, anddelete, all inO(logn) worst-case time, for anyk&equals;O(logn). This extends previous results by Hon et al. [2003c] achieving the same space andO(logn/log logn) time complexities for the queries, yet offering complexities forinsertanddeletethat are amortized and worse than ours, and supported only fork&equals;O(1). Our result matches an existing lower bound for large values ofk.We also give new solutions to the Dynamic Sequence problem. Given a sequence ofnsymbols in the range [1,σ] with binary zero-order entropyH0, we present a dynamic data structure that requiresnH0+o(nlog σ) bits of space, which is able of performingrankandselect, as well as inserting and deleting symbols at arbitrary positions, inO(lognlog σ) time. Our result is thefirstentropy-bound dynamic data structure forrankandselectover general sequences.In the case σ &equals; 2, where both previous problems coincide, we improve the dynamic solution of Hon et al. [2003c] in that we compress the sequence. The only previous result with entropy-bound space for dynamic binary sequences is by Blandford and Blelloch [2004], which has the same complexities as our structure, but does not achieve constant 1 multiplying the entropy term in the space complexity.Finally, we present a new dynamic compressed full-text self-index, for a collection of texts over an alphabet of size σ, of overall lengthnandhth order empirical entropyHh. The index requiresnHh+o(nlog σ) bits of space, for anyh≤ α logsigmanand constant 0 < α < 1. It can count the number of occurrences of a pattern of lengthmin timeO(mlognlog σ). Each such occurrence can be reported inO(log2nlog logn) time, and displaying a context of length &ell; from a text takes timeO(logn(&ell; log σ + lognlog logn)). Insertion/deletion of a text to/from the collection takesO(lognlog σ) time per symbol. This significantly improves the space of a previous result by Chan et al. [2004] in exchange for a slight time complexity penalty. We achieve at the same time thefirstdynamic index requiring essentiallynHhbits of space, and thefirstconstruction of a compressed full-text self-index within that working space. Previous results achieve at bestO(nHhspace with constants larger than 1 [Ferragina and Manzini 2000; Arroyuelo and Navarro 2005] and higher time complexities.An important result we prove in this paper is that the wavelet tree of the Burrows-Wheeler transform of a text, if compressed with a technique that achieves zero-order compression locally (e.g., Raman et al. [2002]), automatically achieveshth order entropy space for anyh. This unforeseen relation is essential for the results of the previous paragraph, but it also derives into significant simplifications on many existing static compressed full-text self-indexes that build on wavelet trees.