In this work, we develop an intelligent storage system framework for soft real-time applications. Modern software systems consist of a collection of layers and information exchange across the layers is performed via well-defined interfaces. Due to the strictness and inflexibility of interface definition, it is not possible to pass the information specific to one layer to other layers. In practice, the exploitation of this information across the layers can greatly enhance the performance, reliability, and manageability of the system. We address the limitation of legacy interface definition via enabling intelligence in the storage system. The objective is to enable the lower-layer entity, for example, a physical or block device, to conjecture the semantic and contextual information of that application behavior which cannot be passed via the legacy interface. Based upon the knowledge obtained by the intelligence module, the system can perform a number of actions to improve the performance, reliability, security, and manageability of the system. Our intelligence storage system focuses on optimizing the I/O subsystem performance for a soft real-time application. Our intelligence framework consists of three components: theworkload monitor,workload analyzer, andsystem optimizer. The workload monitor maintains a window of recent I/O requests and extractsfeature vectorsin regular intervals. The workload analyzer is trained to determine the class of the incoming workload by using the feature vector. The system optimizer performs various actions to tune the storage system for a given workload. We useconfidence rate boostingto train the workload analyzer. This sophisticated learner achieves a higher than 97&percnt; accuracy of workload class prediction. We develop a prototype intelligence storage system on the legacy operating system platform. The system optimizer performs; (1) dynamic adjustment of the file-system-level read-ahead size; (2) dynamic adjustment of I/O request size; and (3) filtering of I/O requests. We examine the effect of this autonomic optimization via experimentation. We find that the storage level pro-active optimization greatly enhances the efficiency of the underlying storage system. The sophisticated intelligence module developed in this work does not restrict its usage for performance optimization. It can be effectively used as classification engine for generic autonomic computing environment, i.e. management, diagnosis, security and etc.