Several studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of the wavelet decomposition as a tool for reducing large amounts of data down to compactwavelet synopsesthat can be used to obtain fast, accurate approximate query answers. Conventional wavelet synopses that greedily minimize the overall root-mean-squared (i.e.,L2-norm) error in the data approximation can suffer from important problems, including severe bias and wide variance in the quality of the data reconstruction, and lack of nontrivial guarantees for individual approximate answers. Thus,probabilistic thresholding schemeshave been recently proposed as a means of building wavelet synopses that try toprobabilisticallycontrolmaximumapproximation-error metrics (e.g., maximum relative error).A key open problem is whether it is possible to design efficientdeterministicwavelet-thresholding algorithms for minimizinggeneral, non-L2error metricsthat are relevant to approximate query processing systems, such as maximum relative or maximum absolute error. Obviously, such algorithms can guarantee better maximum-error wavelet synopses and avoid the pitfalls of probabilistic techniques (e.g., “bad” coin-flip sequences) leading to poor solutions; in addition, they can be used to directly optimize the synopsis construction process for other useful error metrics, such as themean relative errorin data-value reconstruction. In this article, we propose novel, computationally efficient schemes for deterministic wavelet thresholding with the objective of optimizinggeneral approximation-error metrics. We first consider the problem of constructing wavelet synopses optimized formaximum error, and introduce anoptimallow polynomial-time algorithm forone-dimensionalwavelet thresholding---our algorithm is based on a new Dynamic-Programming (DP) formulation, and can be employed to minimize the maximum relative or absolute error in the data reconstruction. Unfortunately, directly extending our one-dimensional DP algorithm tomultidimensionalwavelets results in a super-exponential increase in time complexity with the data dimensionality. Thus, we also introduce novel, polynomial-timeapproximation schemes(with tunable approximation guarantees) for deterministic wavelet thresholding in multiple dimensions. We then demonstrate how our optimal and approximate thresholding algorithms for maximum error can be extended to handle a broad, natural class ofdistributive error metrics, which includes several important error measures, such as mean weighted relative error and weightedLp-norm error. Experimental results on real-world and synthetic data sets evaluate our novel optimization algorithms, and demonstrate their effectiveness against earlier wavelet-thresholding schemes.