Fast execution of physical system models has various uses, such as simulating physical phenomena or real-time testing of medical equipment. Physical system models commonly consist of thousands of differential equations. Solving such equations using software on microprocessor devices may be slow. Several past efforts implement such models as parallel circuits on special computing devices called Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), demonstrating large speedups due to the excellent match between the massive fine-grained local communication parallelism common in physical models and the fine-grained parallel compute elements and local connectivity of FPGAs. However, past implementation efforts were mostly manual or ad hoc. We present the first method for automatically converting a set of ordinary differential equations into circuits on FPGAs. The method uses a general Processing Element (PE) that we developed, designed to quickly solve a set of ordinary differential equations while using few FPGA resources. The method instantiates a network of general PEs, partitions equations among the PEs to minimize communication, generates each PE's custom program, creates custom connections among PEs, and maintains synchronization of all PEs in the network. Our experiments show that the method generates a 400-PE network on a commercial FPGA that executes four different models on average 15x faster than a 3 GHz Intel processor, 30x faster than a commercial 4-core ARM, 14x faster than a commercial 6-core Texas Instruments digital signal processor, and 4.4x faster than an NVIDIA 336-core graphics processing unit. We also show that the FPGA-based approach is reasonably cost effective compared to using the other platforms. The method yields 2.1x faster circuits than a commercial high-level synthesis tool that uses the traditional method for converting behavior to circuits, while using 2x fewer lookup tables, 2x fewer hardcore multiplier (DSP) units, though 3.5x more block RAM due to being programmable. Furthermore, the method does not just generate a single fastest design, but generates a range of designs that trade off size and performance, by using different numbers of PEs.