We study two computational problems, parameterised by a fixed treeH. &num;HOMSTO(H) is the problem of counting homomorphisms from an input graphGtoH. &num;WHOMSTO(H) is the problem of counting weighted homomorphisms toH, given an input graphGand a weight function for each vertexvofG. Even thoughHis a tree, these problems turn out to be sufficiently rich to capture all of the known approximation behaviour in &num;P. We give a complete trichotomy for &num;WHOMSTO(H). IfHis a star, then &num;WHOMSTO(H) is in FP. IfHis not a star but it does not contain a certain induced subgraphJ3, then &num;WHOMSTO(H) is equivalent under approximation-preserving (AP) reductions to &num;BIS, the problem of counting independent sets in a bipartite graph. This problem is complete for the class &num;RHΠ1 under AP-reductions. Finally, ifHcontains an inducedJ3, then &num;WHOMSTO(H) is equivalent under AP-reductions to &num;SAT, the problem of counting satisfying assignments to a CNF Boolean formula. Thus, &num;WHOMSTO(H) is complete for &num;P under AP-reductions. The results are similar for &num;HOMSTO(H) except that a rich structure emerges ifHcontains an inducedJ3. We show that there are treesHfor which &num;HOMSTO(H) is &num;SAT-equivalent (disproving a plausible conjecture of Kelk). However, it is still not known whether &num;HOMSTO(H) is &num;SAT-hard for every treeHwhich contains an inducedJ3. It turns out that there is an interesting connection between these homomorphism-counting problems and the problem of approximating the partition function of theferromagnetic Potts model. In particular, we show that for a family of graphsJq, parameterised by a positive integerq, the problem &num;HOMSTO(Jq) is AP-interreducible with the problem of approximating the partition function of theq-state Potts model. It was not previously known that the Potts model had a homomorphism-counting interpretation. We use this connection to obtain some additional upper bounds for the approximation complexity of &num;HOMSTO(Jq).