The number of video streams that can be serviced concurrently is highly constrained by the required real-time and high-rate transfers of multimedia data. Resource sharing techniques, such as Batching, Patching, and Earliest Reachable Merge Target (ERMT), can be used to address this problem by utilizing the multicast facility, which allows multiple requests to share the same set of server and network resources. They assume, however, that all clients have the same available download bandwidth and buffer space. We study how to efficiently support clients with varying available download bandwidth and buffer space, while delivering data in a client-pull fashion using enhanced resource sharing. In particular, we propose threehybrid solutionsto address the variability in the download bandwidth among clients:Simple Hybrid Solution(SHS),Adaptive Hybrid Solution(AHS), andEnhanced Hybrid Solution(EHS). SHS simply combines Batching with either Patching or ERMT, leading to two alternatives:SHS-PandSHS-E, respectively. Batching is used for clients with bandwidth lower than double the video playback rate, and Patching/ERMT is used for the rest. In contrast, AHS and EHS classify clients into multiple bandwidth classes and service them accordingly. AHS employs a new stream type, calledadaptive stream, and EHS employs anenhanced adaptive streamtype to serve clients with bandwidth capacities ranging between the video playback rate and double that rate. AHS and EHS employ adaptive streams or enhanced adaptive streams in conjunction with Batching and Patching or ERMT, leading to four possible schemes: AHS-P, AHS-E, EHS-P, and EHS-E. Moreover, we consider the variability of the available buffer space among clients. Furthermore, we study how the waiting playback requests for different videos can be scheduled for service in the heterogeneous environment, capturing the variations in both the client bandwidth and buffer space. We evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed solutions and analyze various scheduling policies through extensive simulation.