We prove that three apparently unrelated fundamental problems in distributed computing, cryptography, and complexity theory, are essentially the same problem. These three problems and brief descriptions of them follow. (1)The selective decommitment problem.An adversary is given commitments to a collection of messages, and the adversary can ask for some subset of the commitments to be opened. The question is whether seeing the decommitments to these open plaintexts allows the adversary to learn something unexpected about the plaintexts that are unopened. (2)The power of 3-round weak zero-knowledge arguments.The question is what can be proved in (a possibly weakened form of) zero-knowledge in a 3-round argument. In particular, is there a language outside of BPP that has a 3-round public-coin weak zero-knowledge argument? (3)The Fiat-Shamir methodology.This is a method for converting a 3-round public-coin argument (viewed as an identification scheme) to a 1-round signature scheme. The method requires what we call a "magic function" that the signer applies to the first-round message of the argument to obtain a second-round message (queries from the verifier). An open question here is whether every 3-round public-coin argument for a language outside of BPP has a magic function.It follows easily from definitions that if a 3-round public-coin argument system is zero-knowledge in the standard (fairly strong) sense, then it has no magic function. We define a weakening of zero-knowledge such that zero-knowledge ⇒ no-magic-function still holds. For this weakened form of zero-knowledge, we give a partial converse: informally, if a 3-round public-coin argument system is not weakly zero-knowledge, then some form of magic is possible for this argument system. We obtain our definition of weak zero-knowledge by a sequence of weakenings of the standard definition, forming a hierarchy. Intermediate forms of zero-knowledge in this hierarchy are reasonable ones, and they may be useful in applications. Finally, we relate the selective decommitment problem to public-coin proof systems and arguments at an intermediate level of the hierarchy, and obtain several positive security results for selective decommitment.