An(edge) hidden graphis a graph whose edges are notexplicitly given. Detecting the presence of an edge requires an expensive edge probing query. We consider thek Most Connected Vertex(k-MCV) problem on hidden bipartite graphs. Given a bipartite graphGwith independent vertex setsBandW, the goal is to find thekvertices inBwith the largest degrees using the minimum number of queries. This problem can be regarded as a top-kextension of semi-join, and is encountered in several applications in practice.IfBandWhavenandmvertices, respectively, the number of queries needed to solve the problem isnmin the worst case. This, however, is a pessimistic estimate on how many queries are necessary on practical data. In fact, on some inputs, the problem may be settled with onlykm+nqueries, which is significantly lower thannmfork&Lt;n. The huge difference betweenkm+nandnmmakes it interesting to design an adaptive algorithm that is guaranteed to achieve the best possible performance on every inputG. Fork&leq;n/2, we give an algorithm that is instance optimal among a broad class of solutions. This means that, for anyG, our algorithm can perform more queries than the optimal solution (which is unknown) by only a constant factor, which can be shown at most 2.As a second step, we study an &epsiv;-approximate version of thek-MCV problem, where &epsiv; is a parameter satisfying 0 < &epsiv; < 1. The goal is to returnkblack verticesb1, …,bksuch that the degree ofbi(i&leq;k) can be smaller thantiby a factor of at most &epsiv;, whereti, …,tk(in nonascending order) are the degrees of thekmost connected black vertices. We give an efficient randomized algorithm that successfully finds the correct answer with high probability. In particular, for a fixed &epsiv; and a fixed success probability, our algorithm performso(nm)queries in expectation fortk&equals; ω(logn). In other words, whenevertkis greater than lognby more than a constant, our algorithm beats the Ω(nm) lower bound for solving thek-MCV problem exactly. All the proposed algorithms, despite the complication of their underlying theory, are simple enough for easy implementation in practice. Extensive experiments have confirmed that their performance in reality agrees with our theoretical findings very well.