In this paper, we introduce the family of UCONABCmodels for usage control (UCON), which integrateAuthorizations (A), oBligations (B), and Conditions (C). We call these core models because they address the essence of UCON, leaving administration, delegation, and other important but second-order issues for later work. The term usage control is a generalization of access control to cover authorizations, obligations, conditions, continuity (ongoing controls), and mutability. Traditionally, access control has dealt only with authorization decisions on users' access to target resources. Obligations are requirements that have to be fulfilled by obligation subjects for allowing access. Conditions are subject and object independent environmental or system requirements that have to be satisfied for access. In today's highly dynamic, distributed environment, obligations and conditions are also crucialdecision factorsfor richer and finer controls on usage of digital resources. Although they have been discussed occasionally in recent literature, most authors have been motivated from specific target problems and thereby limited in their approaches. The UCONABCmodel integrates these diverse concepts in a unified framework. Traditional authorization decisions are generally made at the time of requests but hardly recognizeongoing controlsfor relatively long-lived access or for immediate revocation. Moreover,mutabilityissues that deal with updates on related subject or object attributes as a consequence of access have not been systematically studied.Unlike other studies that have targeted on specific problems or issues, the UCONABCmodel seeks to enrich and refine the access control discipline in its definition and scope. UCONABCcovers traditional access controls such as mandatory, discretionary, and role-based access control. Digital rights management and other modern access controls are also covered. UCONABClays the foundation for next generation access controls that are required for today's real-world information and systems security. This paper articulates the core of this new area of UCON and develops several detailed models.