A “randomness extractor” is an algorithm that given a sample from a distribution with sufficiently high min-entropy and a short random seed produces an output that is statistically indistinguishable from uniform. (Min-entropy is a measure of the amount of randomness in a distribution.) We present a simple, self-contained extractor construction that produces good extractors for all min-entropies. Our construction is algebraic and builds on a new polynomial-based approach introduced by Ta-Shma et al. [2001b]. Using our improvements, we obtain, for example, an extractor with output lengthm=k/(logn)O(1/α)and seed length (1 &plus; α)lognfor an arbitrary 0 < α ≤ 1, wherenis the input length, andkis the min-entropy of the input distribution.A “pseudorandom generator” is an algorithm that given a short random seed produces a long output that is computationally indistinguishable from uniform. Our technique also gives a new way to construct pseudorandom generators from functions that require large circuits. Our pseudorandom generator construction isnotbased on the Nisan-Wigderson generator [Nisan and Wigderson 1994], and turns worst-case hardnessdirectlyinto pseudorandomness. The parameters of our generator match those in Impagliazzo and Wigderson [1997] and Sudan et al. [2001] and in particular are strong enough to obtain a new proof thatP=BPPifErequires exponential size circuits.Our construction also gives the following improvements over previous work:---We construct an optimal “hitting set generator” that stretchesO(logn) random bits intosΩ(1)pseudorandom bits when given a function on lognbits that requires circuits of sizes. This yields a quantitatively optimal hardness versus randomness tradeoff for bothRPandBPPand solves an open problem raised in Impagliazzo et al. [1999].---We give the first construction of pseudorandom generators that foolnondeterministiccircuits when given a function that requires large nondeterministic circuits. This technique also give a quantitatively optimal hardness versus randomness tradeoff forAMand the first hardness amplification result for nondeterministic circuits.