A fundamental problem in computational geometry is to compute an obstacle-avoiding Euclidean shortest path between two points in the plane. The case of this problem on polygonal obstacles is well studied. In this article, we consider the problem version on curved obstacles, which are commonly modeled assplinegons. A splinegon can be viewed as replacing each edge of a polygon by a convex curved edge (polygons are special splinegons), and the combinatorial complexity of each curved edge is assumed to beO(1). Given in the plane two pointssandtand a setsofhpairwise disjoint splinegons with a total ofnvertices, after abounded degree decompositionofSis obtained, we compute a shortests-to-tpath avoiding the splinegons inO(n&plus;hlogh&plus;k) time, wherekis a parameter sensitive to the geometric structures of the input and is upper bounded byO(h2). The bounded degree decomposition ofS, which is similar to the triangulation of the polygonal domains, can be computed inO(nlogn) time orO(n&plus;hlog1 &plus; &epsi;h) time for any &epsi; > 0. In particular, when all splinegons are convex, the decomposition can be computed inO(n&plus;hlogh) time andkis linear to the number of common tangents in the free space (called “free common tangents”) among the splinegons. Our techniques also improve several previous results:(1) For the polygon case (i.e., when all splinegons are polygons), the shortest path problem was previously solved inO(nlogn) time, or inO(n&plus;h2logn) time. Thus, our algorithm improves theO(n&plus;h2logn) time result, and is faster than theO(nlogn) time solution for sufficiently smallh, for example,h=o(&sqrt;n,logn.(2) Our techniques produce an optimal output-sensitive algorithm for a basic visibility problem of computing all free common tangents amonghpairwise disjoint convex splinegons with a total ofnvertices. Our algorithm runs inO(n&plus;hlogh&plus;k) time andO(n) working space, wherekis the number of all free common tangents. Note thatk&equals;O(h2). Even for the special case where all splinegons are convexpolygons, the previously best algorithm for this visibility problem takesO(n&plus;h2logn) time.(3) We improve the previous work for computing the shortest path between two points among convex pseudodisks ofO(1) complexity each.In addition, a by-product of our techniques is an optimalO(n&plus;hlogh) time andO(n) space algorithm for computing the Voronoi diagram of a set ofhpairwise disjoint convex splinegons with a total ofnvertices.