This article reports on the application of a framework used to model, simulate and visualize the 3D structure of astrophysical wind volumes. The modeling methodology is similar to multidirectional medical tomography in that the spatial structure of an extended target can be reconstructed from a sequence of images obtained by scanning that target from several directions. Even though the controlled environment realized in diagnostic radiology cannot be replicated in the study of astrophysical phenomena, strong candidates for astrophysical tomography do exist in hot, close double stars locked in orbits around a common center of mass. As the Keplerian orbit is traced out, the geometry presented to the observer varies so that each star constitutes an analyzer upon its companion's wind and probes its structure. Since these targets are too far to be resolved spatially, we study and model the UV spectral lines of prominent wind ions, which scatter photospheric UV light so that line shapes vary as the stars revolve and as inhomogeneities form, propagate, and evolve in the composite wind. The framework presented is applied to two hot close binaries near the applicability limits of the discussed methodology. Two novel custom-made tools that aid the analysis of the spectra and the visualization of the results are also presented. The first of these, theSpectrum Analyzer and Animator, automates the derivation of light curves from the observed spectra and the generation of synthetic binary wind-line profiles, which reproduce the morphologies and variabilities of the observed wind profiles. After the composite wind structure of a binary has been recovered, the second tool, theBinary 3D Renderer—also authored in IDL—aids the visualization of the results by simulating the motion of the system (stars, winds and wind-interaction effects) around the binary's center of mass. TheBinary 3D Rendererthus repackages the end product of a lengthy physical modeling process to generate physically sound, realistic multimedia content and increase the effectiveness and communication impact of the research results.