Memory systems are dominant energy consumers, and thus many energy reduction techniques for memory buses and devices have been proposed. For practical energy reduction practices, we have to take into account the interaction between a processor and cache memories together with application programs. Furthermore, energy characterization of memory systems must be accurate enough to justify various techniques. In this article, we build an in-house energy simulator for memory systems that is accelerated by special hardware support while maintaining accuracy. We explore energy behavior of memory systems for various values of the processor and memory clock frequencies and cache configuration. Each experiment is performed with 24M instruction steps of real application programs to guarantee accuracy.The simulator is based on precise energy characterization of memory systems including buses, bus drivers, and memory devices by a cycle-accurate energy measurement technique. We characterize energy consumption of each component by an energy state machine whose states and transitions are associated with the dynamic and static energy costs, respectively. Our approach easily characterizes the energy consumption of complex SDRAMs. We divide and quantify energy components of main memory systems for high-level reduction. The energy simulator enables us to devise practical energy reduction schemes by providing the actual amount of reduction out of the total energy consumption in main memory systems. We introduce several practical energy reduction techniques for SDRAM memory systems and demonstrate energy reduction ratio over the SDRAM memory systems with commercial SDRAM controller chipsets. We classify the SDRAM memory systems into high-performance and mid-performance classes and achieve suitable system configurations for each class. For instance, a typical high-performance 32-bit, 64 MB SDRAM memory system consumes 19.6 mJ, 33.8 mJ, 35.4 mJ, and 37.0 mJ for 24M instructions of an MP3 decoder, a JPEG compressor, a JPEG decompressor, and an MPEG4 decoder, respectively. Our reduction scheme saves 12.7 mJ, 15.1 mJ, 15.5 mJ, and 14.8 mJ, and the reduction ratios are 64.8&percnt;, 44.6&percnt;, 43.8&percnt;, and 40.1&percnt;, respectively, without compromising execution speed.