In this article, we considerisolatedcliques andisolateddense subgraphs. For a given graphG, a vertex subsetSof sizek(and also its induced subgraphG(S)) is said to bec-isolated ifG(S) is connected to its outside via less thanckedges. The numbercis sometimes called theisolation factor. The subgraph appears more isolated if the isolation factor is smaller. The main result in this work shows that for a fixed constantc, we can enumerate allc-isolated maximal cliques (including a maximum one, if any) in linear time.In more detail, we show that, for a given graphGofnvertices andmedges, and a positive real numberc, allc-isolated maximal cliques can be enumerated in timeO( c422cm). From this, we can see that: (1) ifcis a constant, allc-isolated maximal cliques can be enumerated in linear time, and (2) ifc&equlas;O(logn), allc-isolated maximal cliques can be enumerated in polynomial time. Moreover, we show that these bounds are tight. That is, iff(n) is an increasing function not bounded by any constant, then there is a graph ofnvertices andmedges for which the number off(n)-isolated maximal cliques is superlinear inn+m. Furthermore, iff(n) &equals; ω(logn), there is a graph ofnvertices andmedges for which the number off(n)-isolated maximal cliques is superpolynomial inn+m.We next introduce the idea of pseudo-cliques. Apseudo-cliquehaving an average degree α and a minimum degree β, denoted byPC(α,β), is a setV′ ⊆Vsuch that the subgraph induced byV′ has an average degree of at least α and a minimum degree of at least β. This article investigates these, and obtains some cases that can be solved in polynomial time and some other cases that have a superpolynomial number of solutions. Especially, we show the following results, wherekis the number of vertices of the isolated pseudo-cliques: (1) For any &epsiv; > 0 there is a graph ofnvertices for which the number of 1-isolatedPC(k− (logk)1 + &epsiv;,k/(logk)1 + &epsiv;) is superpolynomial, and (2) there is a polynomial-time algorithm which enumerates allc-isolatedPC(k− logk,k/logk), for any constantc.