Advances in quantum computing have spurred a significant amount of research into public-key cryptographic algorithms that are resistant against postquantum cryptanalysis. Lattice-based cryptography is one of the important candidates because of its reasonable complexity combined with reasonable signature sizes. However, in a postquantum world, not only the cryptography will change but also the computing platforms. Large amounts of resource-constrained embedded systems will connect to a cloud of powerful server computers. We present an optimization technique for lattice-based signature generation on such embedded systems; our goal is to optimize latency rather than throughput. Indeed, on an embedded system, the latency of a single signature for user identification or message authentication is more important than the aggregate signature generation rate. We build a high-performance implementation using hardware&sol;software codesign techniques. The key idea is to partition the signature generation scheme into offline and online phases. The signature scheme allows this separation because a large portion of the computation does not depend on the message to be signed and can be handled before the message is given. Then, we can map complex precomputation operations in software on a low-cost processor and utilize hardware resources to accelerate simpler online operations. To find the optimum hardware architecture for the target platform, we define and explore the design space and implement two design configurations. We realize our solutions on the Altera Cyclone-IV CGX150 FPGA. The implementation consists of a NIOS soft-core processor and a low-latency hash and polynomial multiplication engine. On average, the proposed low-latency architecture can generate a signature with a latency of 96 clock cycles at 40MHz, resulting in a response time of 2.4μs for a signing request. On equivalent platforms, this corresponds to a performance improvement of 33 and 105 times compared to previous hardware and software implementations, respectively.