The dual effects of larger die sizes and technology scaling, combined with aggressive voltage scaling for power reduction, increase the error rates for on-chip memories. Traditional on-chip memory reliability techniques (e.g., ECC) incur significant power and performance overheads. In this article, we propose a low-power-and-performance-overhead Embedded RAID (E-RAID) strategy and present Embedded RAIDs-on-Chip (E-RoC), a distributed dynamically managed reliable memory subsystem for bus-based Chip-Multiprocessors. E-RoC achieves reliability through redundancy by optimizing RAID-like policies tuned for on-chip distributed memories. We achieve on-chip reliability of memories through the use of Distributed Dynamic ScratchPad Allocatable Memories (DSPAMs) and their allocation policies. We exploit aggressive voltage scaling to reduce power consumption overheads due to parallel DSPAM accesses, and rely on the E-RoC Manager to automatically handle any resulting voltage-scaling-induced errors. We demonstrate how E-RAIDs can further enhance the fault tolerance of traditional memory reliability approaches by designing E-RAID levels that exploit ECC. Finally, we show the power and flexibility of the E-RoC concept by showing the benefits of having a heterogeneous E-RAID levels that fit each application's needs (fault tolerance, power/energy, performance).Our experimental results on CHStone/Mediabench II benchmarks show that our E-RAID levels converge to 100&percnt; error-free data rates much faster than traditional ECC approaches. Moreover, E-RAID levels that exploit ECC can guarantee 99.9&percnt; error-free data rates at ultra low Vdd on average, where as traditional ECC approaches were able to attain at most 99.1&percnt; error-free data rates. We observe an average of 22&percnt; dynamic power consumption increase by using traditional ECC approaches with respect to the baseline (non-voltage scaled SPMs), whereas our E-RAID levels are able to save dynamic power consumption by an average of 27&percnt; (w.r.t. the same non-voltage scaled SPMs baseline), while incurring worst-case 2&percnt; higher performance overheads than traditional ECC approaches. By voltage scaling the memories, we see that traditional ECC approaches are able to save static energy by 6.4&percnt; (average), where as our E-RAID approaches achieve 23.4&percnt; static energy savings (average). Finally, we observe that mixing E-RAID levels allows us to further reduce the dynamic power consumption by up to 55.5&percnt; at the cost of an average 5.6&percnt; increase in execution time over traditional approaches.