Certification is a common mechanism for authentic public key distribution. In order to obtain a public key, verifiers need to extract a certificate path from a network of certificates, which is called public key infrastructure (PKI), and verify the certificates on this path recursively. This is classical methodology. Nested certification is a novel methodology for efficient certificate path verification. Basic idea is to issue special certificates (called nested certificates) for other certificates. Nested certificates can be used together with classical certificates in PKIs. Such a PKI, which is called nested certificate-based PKI (NPKI), is proposed in this paper as an alternative to classical PKI. The concept of "certificates for other certificates" results in nested certificate paths in which the first certificate is verified cryptographically while others are verified by just fast hash computations. Thus, we can employ efficiently verifiable nested certificate paths instead of classical certificate paths. NPKI is a dynamic system and involves several authorities in order to add a new user to the system. This uses the authorities' idle time to the benefit of the verifiers. We formulate the trade-off between the nested certification overhead and the time improvement on certificate path verification. This trade-off is numerically analyzed for a 4-level 20-ary balanced tree-shaped PKI and it has been shown that the extra cost of nested certification is in acceptable limits in order to generate quickly verifiable certificate paths for certain applications. Moreover, PKI-to-NPKI transition preserves the existing hierarchy and trust relationships in the PKI, so that it can be used for PKIs with fixed topology. Although there are many certificates in NPKI, certificate revocation is no more of a problem than with classical PKIs. NPKI even has an advantage on the number of certificate revocation controls: at most two certificate revocation controls are sufficient independent of the path length. Nested certificates can be easily adopted into X.509 standard certificate structure. Both verification efficiency and revocation advantage of NPKI and nested certificates make them suitable for hierarchical PKIs of wireless applications where wireless end users have limited processing power.