Editors' comments:“Computers and People with Disabilities” is a reprint of an article originally published inCommunications of the ACMin 1992. In this article, Glinert and York issued a “call-to-arms” for research and development on technologies for people with disabilities. Specifically, they highlighted that human-computer interfaces at the time generally failed to take into account the needs of disabled users. Their challenge was to change computing culture to address this need. Their article remains timely today in its consideration of government, industry, and private foundations working with researchers to achieve accessible technology. With the recent launch ofTransactions on Accessible Computing, this seems an appropriate time to consider progress in the field since, as well as current research trends.The reprinting of this article is followed by four commentaries by leaders in accessibility research. Each was cited in the 1992 article and each now gives their view on how the field has progressed since that time. In their commentaries, some themes emerge and new technologies are discussed. In short, their commentaries point to both a great deal of progress and a lack of progress. All four of the commentators note areas where computing continues to present barriers rather than assist users with disabilities.Alistair Edwards sets the stage with a look back at interfaces and input technologies popular in 1992, with attention paid to access problems related to graphical user interfaces (GUIs) that have consumed much research energy since 1992. Alan Newell highlights disability concerns that were not given large research consideration in 1992, but which have now become significant due, in large part, to changes in global demographics. Specifically, he brings visibility to research on older adults and cognitively disabled users.A number of advances in technology and methodology since 1992 are discussed by the commentators. The ubiquity of computing and its critical adoption in the world today are highlighted. The commentators reflect, for example, on technologies produced by research for disabled users that have now impacted mainstream offerings on standards for accessibility that have emerged worldwide and their impact and on assistive technologies that have been developed. Critically, the proliferation of the World Wide Web was not foreseen in 1992 and its use by people with disabilities is discussed. Gregg Vanderheiden considers the opportunity afforded by the Web to provide widespread availability of accessible software.Glinert and York discussed the need for design for disability. While research relevant to users with disabilities is gaining momentum, the commentators indicate that users with disabilities still struggle with much of today's IT. The commentators note current trends toward designs that take into account disabled users. Notably, Richard Ladner ends his commentary by mentioning the issue of empowerment. Users with disabilities have moved beyond simply needing the protections of regulation that were emerging in 1992, to being active participants in designing solutions to allow full participation in the current social, political, and economic environments.Together, these articles provide a great deal of food for thought on technology advances and new considerations of accessible technology. Has the change in computing culture envisioned by Glinert and York taken hold?Vicki L. HansonandAndrew SearsCo-Editors in Chief