This article presents a generic framework for the representation and deformation of level set surfaces at extreme resolutions. The framework is composed of two modules that each utilize optimized and application specific algorithms: 1) A fastout-of-coredata management scheme that allows for resolutions of the deforming geometry limited only by the available disk space as opposed to memory, and 2) compact and fastcompressionstrategies that reduce both offline storage requirements and online memory footprints during simulation. Out-of-core and compression techniques have been applied to a wide range of computer graphics problems in recent years, but this article is the first to apply it in the context of level set and fluidsimulations. Our framework is generic and flexible in the sense that the two modules can transparently be integrated, separately or in any combination, into existing level set and fluid simulation software based on recently proposed narrow band data structures like the DT-Grid of Nielsen and Museth [2006] and the H-RLE of Houston et al [2006]. The framework can be applied to narrow band signed distances, fluid velocities, scalar fields, particle properties as well as standard graphics attributes like colors, texture coordinates, normals, displacements etc. In fact, our framework is applicable to a large body of computer graphics problems that involve sequential or random access to very large co-dimension one (level set) and zero (e.g. fluid) data sets. We demonstrate this with several applications, including fluid simulations interacting with large boundaries (&approx; 15003), surface deformations (&approx; 20483), the solution of partial differential equations on large surfaces (&approx; 40963) and mesh-to-level set scan conversions of resolutions up to &approx; 350003(7 billion voxels in the narrow band). Our out-of-core framework is shown to be several times faster than current state-of-the-art level set data structures relying on OS paging. In particular we show sustained throughput (grid points/sec) for gigabyte sized level sets as high as 65&percnt; of state-of-the-art throughput for in-core simulations. We also demonstrate that our compression techniques out-perform state-of-the-art compression algorithms for narrow bands.