Ernst Althaus, Sebastian Altmeyer, and Rouven Naujoks. 2011. Precise and efficient parametric path analysis. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN/SIGBED Conference on Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems.
Sebastian Altmeyer, Claire Maiza, and Jan Reineke. 2010. Resilience analysis: Tightening the CRPD bound for set-associative caches. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN/SIGBED Conference on Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems. 153--162.
Sudipta Chattopadhyay, Chong Lee Kee, Abhik Roychoudhury, Timon Kelter, Marwedel Peter, and Falk Heiko. 2012. A unified WCET analysis framework for multi-core platforms. In Proceedings of the Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium.
Sudipta Chattopadhyay and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2011. Scalable and precise refinement of cache timing analysis via model checking. In Proceedings of the Real-Time Systems Symposium.
Sudipta Chattopadhyay, Abhik Roychoudhury, and Tulika Mitra. 2010. Modeling shared cache and bus in multi-cores for timing analysis. In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Software and Compilers for Embedded Systems.
Christian Ferdinand and Reinhard Wilhelm. 1999. Efficient and precise cache behavior prediction for real-time systems. Real-Time Systems 17, 2--3, 131--181.
Damien Hardy, Thomas Piquet, and Isabelle Puaut. 2009. Using bypass to tighten WCET estimates for multi-core processors with shared instruction caches. In Proceedings of the Real-Time Systems Symposium.
Damien Hardy and Isabelle Puaut. 2008. WCET analysis of multi-level non-inclusive set-associative instruction caches. In Proceedings of the Real-Time Systems Symposium.
Timon Kelter, Heiko Falk, Peter Marwedel, Sudipta Chattopadhyay, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2014. Static analysis of multi-core TDMA resource arbitration delays. Real-Time Systems 50, 2, 185--229. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11241-013-9189-x
Benjamin Lesage, Damien Hardy, and Isabelle Puaut. 2010. Shared data cache conflicts reduction for WCET computation in multi-core architectures. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Real-Time Networks and Systems.
Xianfeng Li, Yun Liang, Tulika Mitra, and Abhik Roychoudury. 2007. Chronos: A timing analyzer for embedded software. Science of Computer Programming 69, 1--3, 56--67. http://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/∼rpembed/chronos.
Yan Li, Vivy Suhendra, Yun Liang, Tulika Mitra, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2009. Timing analysis of concurrent programs running on shared cache multi-cores. In Proceedings of the Real-Time Systems Symposium.
Thomas Lundqvist and Per Stenström. 1999. Timing anomalies in dynamically scheduled microprocessors. In Proceedings of the 20th IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS’99).
Silvano Martello and Paolo Toth. 1990. Knapsack Problems: Algorithms and Computer Implementations. John Wiley & Sons.
K. Nagar and Y. N. Srikant. 2015a. Path sensitive cache analysis using cache miss paths. In Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation. Springer, Berlin, 43--60.
K. Nagar and Y. N. Srikant. 2014. Precise shared cache analysis using optimal interference placement. In Proceedings of the Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium.
K. Nagar and Y. N. Srikant. 2015b. Shared Instruction Cache Analysis in Real-Time Multi-Core Systems. Technical Report. http://www.csa.iisc.ernet.in/TR/2015/1/tech-report.pdf.
Fadia Nemer, Hugues Cassé, Pascal Sainrat, Jean Paul Bahsoun, and Marianne De Michiel. 2006. PapaBench: A free real-time benchmark. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Worst-Case Execution Time Analysis (WCET’06).
Marco Paolieri, Eduardo Quiñones, Franciso J. Cazorla, Guillem Bernat, and Mateo Valero. 2009. Hardware support for WCET analysis of hard real-time multicore systems. In Proceedings of the International Symposium on Computer Architecture.
Harini Ramaprasad and Frank Mueller. 2005. Bounding worst-case data cache behavior by analytically deriving cache reference patterns. In Proceedings of the Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium.
Vivy Suhendra and Tulika Mitra. 2008. Exploring locking and partitioning for predictable shared caches on multi-cores. In Proceedings of the Design Automation Conference.
Bryan C. Ward, Jonathan L. Herman, Christopher J. Kenna, and James H. Anderson. 2013. Making shared caches more predictable on multicore platforms. In Proceedings of the Euromicro Conference on Real-Time Systems.
Reinhard Wilhelm, Sebastian Altmeyer, Claire Burguire, Daniel Grund, Jrg Herter, Jan Reineke, Bjrn Wachter, and Stephan Wilhelm. 2010. Static timing analysis for hard real-time systems. In Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 5944. Springer, 3--22.
Jun Yan and Wei Zhang. 2008. WCET analysis for multi-core processors with shared L2 instruction caches. In Proceedings of the Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium.
Jun Yan and Wei Zhang. 2009. Accurately estimating worst-case execution time for multi-core processors with shared direct-mapped instruction caches. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Embedded and Real-Time Computing Systems and Applications.
