Traditional databases incur a significantdata-to-querydelay due to the requirement toload datainside the system before querying. Since this is not acceptable in many domains generating massive amounts of raw data (e.g., genomics), databases are entirely discarded.External tables, on the other hand, provide instant SQL querying over raw files. Their performance across a query workload is limited though by the speed of repeated full scans, tokenizing, and parsing of the entire file.In this article, we propose SCANRAW, a novel database meta-operator for in-situ processing over raw files that integrates data loading and external tables seamlessly, while preserving their advantages: optimal performance across a query workload and zero time-to-query. We decompose loading and external table processing into atomic stages in order to identify common functionality. We analyze alternative implementations and discuss possible optimizations for each stage. Our major contribution is aparallel superscalar pipeline implementationthat allows SCANRAW to take advantage of the current many- and multicore processors by overlapping the execution of independent stages. Moreover, SCANRAW overlaps query processing with loading by speculatively using the additional I/O bandwidth arising during the conversion process for storing data into the database, such that subsequent queries execute faster. As a result, SCANRAW makes intelligent use of the available system resources—CPU cycles and I/O bandwidth—by switching dynamically between tasks to ensure that optimal performance is achieved. We implement SCANRAW in a state-of-the-art database system and evaluate its performance across a variety of synthetic and real-world datasets. Our results show that SCANRAW with speculative loading achieves the best-possible performance for a query sequence at any point in the processing. Moreover, SCANRAW maximizes resource utilization for the entire workload execution while speculatively loading data and without interfering with normal query processing.