The era of cloud computing on-a-chip is enabled by the aggressive move towards many-core platforms and the rapid adoption of Network-on-Chips. As a result, there is a need for large-scale distributed on-chip shared memories that are reliable, low power, and seamlessly manageable. In this work, we proposeSPMCloud, a novel scratchpad-memory-based cloud-inspired volatile storage subsystem designed to meet the needs of future-generation many-core platforms.SPMCloudis composed of several concepts, including: (1) a highly scalable data-center-like memory subsystem that exploits two enterprise-network-inspired memory configurations, namely, embedded Network Attached Storage (eNAS) and embedded Storage Area Network (eSAN), and (2) on-demand allocation of reliable memory space through memory virtualization and the use of embedded RAIDs. Our experimental results on Mediabench/CHStone benchmarks show that theSPMCloud's fully distributed reliable memory subsystems can achieve 48&percnt; energy savings and 70&percnt; latency reduction on average over state-of-the-art NoC memory reliability techniques. We then evaluate the scalability of theSPMCloudand compare it with traditional SPM allocation policies. TheSPMCloud's dynamic allocator outperforms the best competition by an average 60&percnt; (eNAS) and 46&percnt; (eSAN) when the platform runs at 250 MHz and by an average 80&percnt; (eNAS) and 40&percnt; when running at 1 GHz. Moreover, theSPMCloudachieves an average 83&percnt; energy savings across all configurations (number of cores) with respect to the best competitors when running at 250 MHz and 1 GHz. We then studied the SPM hit ratio across the various allocation policies discussed in this article and showed that on average theSPMCloud's priority-driven dynamic allocation policy achieves 93.5&percnt; SPM hit ratio, 0.6&percnt; higher hit ratio than the closest allocation policy. We then showed that theeNASandeSANachieve an average of 67.9&percnt; and 29&percnt; reduction in execution time, respectively, over the best competitor. Similarly, theeNASandeSANachieve an average of 82.7&percnt; and 82.3&percnt; energy savings, respectively, over the best competitor. Furthermore, we evaluated the scalability of theSPMCloudand its performance/energy efficiency when providing support for some of the heavier E-RAID levels, and showed that theeNAS/eSANconfigurations with SECDED achieve an average of 51.5&percnt; and 34.9&percnt; reduction in execution time, respectively, over the best competitor with SECDED. Similarly, theeNAS/eSANconfigurations with E-RAID Level 1, &plus; SECDED achieve an average of 82.3&percnt; and 75.6&percnt; energy savings, respectively, over the best competitor.