Connectivity, primarily a graph-theoretic concept, helps define thefault toleranceof wireless sensor networks (WSNs) in the sense that it enables the sensors to communicate with each other so their sensed data can reach the sink. On the other hand,sensing coverage, an intrinsic architectural feature of WSNs plays an important role in meeting application-specific requirements, for example, to reliably extract relevant data about a sensed field. Sensing coverage and network connectivity are not quite orthogonal concepts. In fact, it has been proven that connectivity strongly depends on coverage and hence considerable attention has been paid to establish tighter connection between them although only loose lower bound on network connectivity of WSNs is known. In this article, we investigate connectivity based on the degree of sensing coverage by studyingk-coveredWSNs, where every location in the field is simultaneously covered (or sensed) by at leastksensors (property known ask-coverage, wherekis thedegree of coverage). We observe that to derive network connectivity ofk-covered WSNs, it is necessary to compute the sensor spatial density required to guaranteek-coverage. More precisely, we propose to use a model, called theReuleaux Triangle, to characterizek-coverage with the help of Helly's Theorem and the analysis of the intersection of sensing disks ofksensors. Using a deterministic approach, we show that the sensor spatial density to guaranteek-coverage of a convex field is proportional tokand inversely proportional to the sensing range of the sensors. We also prove that network connectivity ofk-covered WSNs is higher than their sensing coveragek. Furthermore, we propose a new measure of fault tolerance fork-covered WSNs, calledconditional fault tolerance, based on the concepts ofconditional connectivityandforbidden faulty sensor setthat includes all the neighbors of a given sensor. We prove thatk-covered WSNs can sustain a large number of sensor failures provided that the faulty sensor set does not include a forbidden faulty sensor set.