Currently the QoS requirements for storage systems are usually presented in the form of service-level agreement (SLA) to bound I/O measures such as latency and throughput of I/O requests. However, SLA is not an effective performance interface for users to specify their required I/O service quality for two major reasons. First, for users it is difficult to determine appropriate latency and throughput bounds to ensure their required application performance without resource over-provisioning. Second, for storage system administrators it is a challenge to estimate a user’s real resource demand because the specified SLA measures are not consistently correlated with the user’s resource demand. This makes resource provisioning and scheduling less informative and can greatly reduce system efficiency.We propose the concept of reference storage system (RSS), which can be a storage system chosen by users and whose performance can be measured offline and mimicked online, as a performance interface between applications and storage servers. By designating an RSS to represent I/O performance requirement, a user can expect the performance received from a shared storage server servicing his I/O workload is not worse than the performance received from the RSS servicing the same workload. The storage system is responsible for implementing the RSS interface. The key enabling techniques are a machine learning model that derives request-specific performance requirements and an RSS-centric scheduling that efficiently allocates resource among requests from different users. The proposed scheme, named asYouChoose, supports the user-chosen performance interface through efficiently implementing and migrating virtual storage devices in a host storage system. Our evaluation based on trace-driven simulations shows thatYouChoosecan precisely implement the RSS performance interface, achieve a strong performance assurance and isolation, and improve the efficiency of a consolidated storage system consisting of different types of storage devices.