In this article, we describe RQNoC, a service-oriented Network-on-Chip (NoC) resilient to permanent faults. We characterize the network resources based on the particular service that they support and, when faulty, bypass them, allowing the respective traffic class to be redirected. We propose two alternatives for service redirection, each having different advantages and disadvantages. The first one, Service Detour, uses longer alternative paths through resources of the same service to bypass faulty network parts, keeping traffic classes isolated. The second approach, Service Merge, uses resources of other services providing shorter paths but allowing traffic classes to interfere with each other. The remaining network resources that are common for all services employ additional mechanisms for tolerating faults. Links tolerate faults using additional spare wires combined with a flit-shifting mechanism, and the router control is protected with Triple-Modular-Redundancy (TMR). The proposed RQNoC network designs are implemented in 65nm technology and evaluated in terms of performance, area, power consumption, and fault tolerance. Service Detour requires 9&percnt; more area and consumes 7.3&percnt; more power compared to a baseline network, not tolerant to faults. Its packet latency and throughput is close to the fault-free performance at low-fault densities, but fault tolerance and performance drop substantially for 8 or more network faults. Service Merge requires 22&percnt; more area and 27&percnt; more power than the baseline and has a 9&percnt; slower clock. Compared to a fault-free network, a Service Merge RQNoC with up to 32 faults has increased packet latency up to 1.5 to 2.4× and reduced throughput to 70&percnt; or 50&percnt;. However, it delivers substantially better fault tolerance, having a mean network connectivity above 90&percnt; even with 32 network faults versus 41&percnt; of a Service Detour network. Combining Serve Merge and Service Detour improves fault tolerance, further sustaining a higher number of network faults and reduced packet latency.