As silicon technologies move into the nanometer regime, transistor reliability is expected to wane as devices become subject to extreme process variation, particle-induced transient errors, and transistor wear-out. Unless these challenges are addressed, computer vendors can expect low yields and short mean-times-to-failure. In this article, we examine the challenges of designing complex computing systems in the presence of transient and permanent faults. We select one small aspect of a typical chip multiprocessor (CMP) system to study in detail, a single CMP router switch. Our goal is to design aBulletProofCMP switch architecture capable of tolerating significant levels of various types of defects. We first assess the vulnerability of the CMP switch to transient faults. To better understand the impact of these faults, we evaluate our CMP switch designs using circuit-level timing on detailed physical layouts. Our infrastructure represents a new level of fidelity in architectural-level fault analysis, as we can accurately track faults as they occur, noting whether they manifest or not, because of masking in the circuits, logic, or architecture. Our experimental results are quite illuminating. We find that transient faults, because of their fleeting nature, are of little concern for our CMP switch, even within large switch fabrics with fast clocks. Next, we develop a unified model of permanent faults, based on the time-tested bathtub curve. Using this convenient abstraction, we analyze the reliability versus area tradeoff across a wide spectrum of CMP switch designs, ranging from unprotected designs to fully protected designs with on-line repair and recovery capabilities. Protection is considered at multiple levels from the entire system down through arbitrary partitions of the design. We find that designs are attainable that can tolerate a larger number of defects with less overhead than naïve triple-modular redundancy, using domain-specific techniques, such as end-to-end error detection, resource sparing, automatic circuit decomposition, and iterative diagnosis and reconfiguration.