KLINE, MORRIS. Mathematics in Western Culture Oxford U Press, New York, 1953. Khne relates progress in mathematics to progress in human clvlhzatlon. In Chapter IX, "Painting and Perspective," he discusses the difference between conceptual perspective which follows mathematical principles and optical perspective which reproduces the scene observed by the viewer
Webster's New World Dictionary o} the American Language, College Ed. World Pubhshlng Co, Cleveland and New York, 1962
BELLO, FRANCIS. I~Iow to cope with reformation. Fortune 62 (Sept. 1960), 162-167ff Bello surveys the early state-of-the-art m reformation retrieval. His article glves a quick look at tools and techDlnues for dealmg with documentary data. His analysis of future trends is qul~e good a~bi,ou~;,, overopt~mlstm, many of the 1960 approaches being substantmlly unchanged today.
1410/7010 formatted file system. IBM Federal Systems D1v., Rockvllle, Md, 1965. Th~s instruction manual describes one specific formatted file system m general terms, giving several examples of file construction
George G. Dodd, Elements of Data Management Systems, ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), v.1 n.2, p.117-133, June 1969[doi>10.1145/356546.356550]
BECKER, JOSEPH, AND HAYES, ROBERT M. Inormatwn Storage and Retrieval: Tools, Elements, Theories Wiley, New York, 1963.
HOWERTON, PAUL W. Informatwn Handhng: Fzrst PnnczpIes Spartan Books, Washington, D. C., 1963 Becker and Hayes along with ttowerton were among the earhest pubhshers of volumes concerned w~th computerized reformat,on handling of documents, indexes, text, etc. The similarity of data processing methods to those used m numemc data processing was obv,ous but ~t took some t~me for the two fields to borrow techmques from each other. Both referenced volumes are good source material for someone planning to build an informatmn retrieval system. They are strong on organizational and personnel planmng as well as techmcal fundamentals.
AGUILAR. F J Scanmng the Bus~ness Environment (Columbm U. Graduate School of Business Studies of the Modern Corporation) Macmlllan Co, New York, 1967 The author ~s concerned w~th "How do managers manage?" To find out he observed and surveyed many corporate executives to determine where they get their mformatmn, how they use it. and whether it is a basis for their declsmns. The conclusmns showed that most of the inputs used by the executive came from contacts with other managers and employees. Little if any use was made of the formal reports produced by the corporate data processing sources.
POLANYI. MICHAEL. Life's irreducible structure. Science 160 (June 21, 1968), 1308-1312. In addition to discussing the role of mformatmn in the hfe process, the author uses hngulstic examples to show why it is impossible to deduce the characteristics of any entity by studying a subset of the entity's components without any knowledge of their structure (Th~s truism ~s apparent in largescale programming projects. Such projects are often underestlm~ted. A basic cause of the underestimate is that it is based on the estimator's expermnce on a smaller programmmg project. Since the small project, even ff relevant, Is only a subset of the large job, ~t cannot show the estimator all the things to be done m building the large job.)
KISTRUCK, J R. S., AND NORMA~, W.L. The management reformation system survey in Rolls-Royce--a case history. Oper. Res. Quart. 19 (April 1968), 71-83 (Special Issue on Declstun-Making). The authors descnbe the hlstory of a survey conducted within Rolls-Royce Ltd. during 1965 and 1966 of the company's internal commumcat~ons. The survey was prompted by the rapid growth of the number of people m the company handling informutmn as compared to growth in manufacturing output. The result of the 30-man-year survey was ~ major step toward use of computers and on-line terminals Although some of the concepts were oversold and had to be ad- .lusted, the net result was a better understanding of systems throughout the company and a base on which to build.
DEAN, NEAL J. The computer comes of age. Harvard Bus. Rev ~G (jan. Feb. 1968), 83-91 Th~s art, cle ident~fies the types of computer apphcatmns m 108 manufacturing compames. The purpose of the study (performed by Booz, Allen & Hamilton, Inc.) was to determine how the use of computers affects companv organlzatmn and pohcy. Dean notes particularly the emergence of a top computer executive (TCE)who ~s given responsibility for integrating the data processing needs of the firm
DEARDEN, JOHN Myth of reulot~me management mformatmn Harvard Bus. Rev ~6 (May-June 1966), 123-132. In th~s often-referenced article, Dearden shows that ~ true real-t~me management reformation system requires substantial changes m management policies. Few execut,ves are prepared to sacrifice the stability of existing procedures and the flexlbfl~ty of running the firm in their personalized way for the ~mpersonal. logical constraints of the computer Fewer still are ready to trade m their expermnced staff on a computer. Dearden urges cautmn--learmng how to integrate a computer into the business before sumpmg on the bandwagon.
WATSON, JAMES D. The Double Helix. A Personal Account o} the Discovery o} ~hv Structure of DNA Atheneum, New York, 1968 The dramatic story of the unwinding of the DNA molecular structure by W~tson and Cr~ck and others ~s told m th~s volume b~" Watson. The result ~s an exciting but controversml book about the people who do scmntific research
DAvIso~, RoY. The system view and the disenchanted executive. SP-1523/000/00, AD625- 002, System Development Corp., Santa Monlca, Cahf., Nov 1965 The lack of participation of top management m system design leads to systems that don't meet management's needs. Davison discusses the problem of executive dissatisfaction as it affects system development.
Lance J. Hoffman, Computers and Privacy: A Survey, ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), v.1 n.2, p.85-103, June 1969[doi>10.1145/356546.356548]
BER~NSTEIN, JEREMY. The Analytical Engine: Computer--Past, Present, and Future. Random House, New York, 1964 This book originally appeared in The New Yorker magazine as an mtroduchon to computers for the educated layman. It is a wellwritten history, short and easy to read
BOWDEN, B V. Faster Than Thought. Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons, London, 1953. Bowden's book is a classic in the field of computing. As in Bernstem's book, many biographical references enlighten and entertam the reader Bowden was writing about a rudimentary technical industry but he managed to project the impact of computers on industry and society quite well.
ARON, J.D. Real time systems m perspective IBM Systems J 6 (Jan. 1967), 49-67. The more important characteristics of realtlme systems are hsted, discussed m a historical context, and illustrated by remarks on the relevant features of typical apphcatmns in five classes: control, command and management information, time-shared computing, remote batch computing, and data acquisition.
Symposium on lmphcatlons of electronic data processmg for tax admm:stratmn and tax policy. Nat Tax J 1J (Sept. 1961). 209-301 In addition to discussing federal-state relationships in tax admm~stratmn, the Symposmm hlghhghted the quite different oblectlves of the participants. The computer people wanted clear, logical laws on taxation The academics wanted the most theoretically eqmtable tax laws The administrators wanted the s~mplest, most responsive collection and audit system. And the pohcymakers wanted pohtically acceptable laws These objectlves tended to conflict severely m some areas The effect on computer apphcahons was to hmlt them (at that date) to auditing returns for accuracy and credlblhty
MEADOW, C. W. The Analys~s o} In}ormatwn Systems. Wiley, New York, 1967. This reference includes an extensive treatment of the design consideratmns affecting an reformation retrieval system. It is aimed at the techmclan as opposed to the manager.
IBM System/360 Operating System Introduction, IBM Form No. C28-6534, IBM System/ 360 Operating System Concepts & Facilities, IBM Form No. C28-6535. IBM Data Processmg Dlv, White Plains, N. Y, 1966 These two manuals provide an overview of OS/360, the master control program for IBM S/360 computers The operating system concept is designed to simplify the user's programming task by giving him many services that he would have to create himself without OS/360.
LOVEMAN, D. G, M OYNE, J. A, AND TOBEY, R G. CUE: A customized system for restricted English. ROCHESTER, N. The use of Enghsh for communicating with a computer. Proc. Informatmn Systems Symposium, IBM Federal Systems Dlv., Galthersburg, Md, Sept 1968, pp 203-219 and 195-202 resp The condmons under which natural language is practical and preferred to computer language are discussed by Rochester. The other authors then describe a prototype system in existence m 1968 that can handle natural language mqmrles to a library of computer hterature Both papers stress the importance of human factors in deslgmng a useful systern. Some degree of user cooberatlon ~s assumed to make up for the lack of urnversahty m the language analys~s
HOGAN, R D. Urban graphic demonstration project LUETJE, j H, AND GARI), R L Computer assisted cartography A graphic system for chart composition and revlsmn. Proc Informatmn Systems Symposmm, IBM Federal Systems D:v, Galthersburg, Md, Sept 1968, pp 81-120 and 125-150 resp. JACOBSEN, J D Geometric relatmnshlps for retrmval of geographic mformatmn IBM Systems J 7 (1968), 331-341 This group of papers describes working systems combining graphic input and output devices wtth specmhzed geometric analysis programs The systems are used in conjunctmn w~th geographic data bases which associate file entries with actual ground locatmns Inputs and outputs may be e~ther numbers or readings on a map.
O'NEILL, D. H Data presentatmn techmques Proc Informatmn Systems Symposmm, IBM Federal Systems Dlv. Galthersburg, Md, Sept. 1968, pp 53-65 The authors describe a program developed for the military which performs stahshcal analyses of data from a formatted file and presents the results m graphic form on a display device Use of overlay techmques allows the outputs to combine plotted results with map or grid backgrounds Hard copras of the display are obtained for management use
