Many efforts in past years have been made to lower the linguistic barriers for non-native English speakers to access the Internet. Internet standard RFC 3490, referred to as IDNA (Internationalizing Domain Names in Applications), focuses on access to IDNs (Internationalized Domain Names) in a range of scripts that is broader in scope than the original ASCII. However, the use of character variants that have similar appearances and/or interpretations could create confusion. A variant IDL (Internationalized Domain Label), derived from an IDL by replacing some characters with their variants, should match the original IDL; and thus a variant IDN does. In RFC 3743, referred to as JET (Joint Engineering Team) Guidelines, it is suggested that zone administrators model this concept of equivalence as an atomic IDL package. When an IDL is registered, an IDL package is created that contains its variant IDLs generated according to the zone-specific Language Variant Tables (LVTs). In addition to the registered IDL, the name holder can request the domain registry to activate some of the variant IDLs, free or by an extra fee. The activated variant IDLs are stored in the zone files, and thus become resolvable. However, an issue of scalability arises when there is a large number of variant IDLs to be activated.In this article, the authors present a resolution protocol that resolves the variant IDLs into the registered IDL, specifically for Han character variants. Two Han characters are said to be variants of each other if they have the same meaning and are pronounced the same. Furthermore, Han character variants usually have similar appearances. It is not uncommon that a Chinese IDL has a large number of variant IDLs. The proposed protocol introduces a new RR (resource record) type, denoted as VarIdx RR, to associate a variant expression of the variant IDLs with the registered IDL. The label of the VarIdx RR, denoted as the variant index, is assigned by an indexing function that is designed to give the same value to all of the variant IDLs enumerated by the variant expression. When one of the variant IDLs is accessed, Internet applications can compute the variant index, look up the VarIdx RRs, and resolve the variant IDL into the registered IDL.The authors examine two sets of Chinese IDLs registered in TWNIC and CNNIC, respectively. The results show that for a registered Chinese IDL, a very small number of VarIdx RRs, usually one or two, are sufficient to activate all of its variant IDLs. The authors also represent a Web redirection service that employs the proposed resolution protocol to redirect a URL addressed by a variant IDN to the URL addressed by the registered IDN. The experiment results show that the proposed protocol successfully resolves the variant IDNs into the registered IDNs.