BABCOCK, J. D. A brief description of privacy measures in the RUSH time-sharing system. Prec. AFIPS 1967 Spring Jomt Comput. Conf., Vol. 30, Thompson Book Co. Washington. D. C, pp. 301-302. A brief summary of the file security procedures m RUSH. This artmle contains some good but short discussion of possible threats and countermeasures.
BARAN, P. Commumcatlons, computers and people. AFIPS 1965 Fall Joint Comput. Conf Vol. 27, Pt. 2, Thompson Book Co., Washington. D. C, pp. 45-49. A well-thought-out general discussion of the privacy problem which overlaps somewhat with Baran's testimony before the Gallagher subcommittee (see {56}) Some specific proposals are presented to (teal with the problem.
BAaA~', P. On distributed communications. IX. Secumty, secrecy and tamper-free conslderatlons. Dec. RM-3765-PR, Rand Corp., Santa Momca, Calif., Aug. 1964. A consideration of the security aspects of a distributed communication system, written from the viewpoint that we should fully anticipate the existence of spies within our ost(msibly secure communications secrecy protection structure; ".Hence, our primary interest should be in raising the 'price' of espied information to a level which becomes excessive." The proposed system combines end-to-end and link-by-link cryptography, automatic error detection and repeat transmission, path changing, and use of a scheme requiring complete and correct reception of all previous traffic in a conversation in order to decrypt subsequent message blocks. It assumes enemy infiltration and takes these countermeasures: key bases split over N (> 1) individuals; filtering tests; key change for each conversation; heavy system use for unclassified traffic Contents: I. introduction ; iI The Paradox of Secrecy about Secrecy: iII Some Fundamentals of Cryptography; IV implications for the Distributed Network System, V. A "Devil's Advocate" Examination. This paper gives a clear, well-written dis- (.ussion of an often "touchy" subject. Relevant points are brought out by good diagrams. It is one of the clearest expositions of real-hfe problems and solutions to be found m the open literature
BAR^N, P. Remarks on the question of privacy raised by the automation of mental health records. Dec. P-3523, Rand Corp. Santa Monica, Calif., Apr. 1967. Remarks invited for presentation before the American Orthopsychiatric Association Workshop. "The Invasion of Privacy," held in Washington, D. C., 21-23 March 1967. This speech of Baran presents to an intelligent group of computer laymen a view of computer privacy invasion whmh heretofore has been available only to people in the computer field. Some tales of medical record leaks are recalled. The famous tale of the MIT freshman who programmed the computer to dial simultaneously every telephone extension in the school is retold, thus the importance of "people-proof" systems is , graphically illustrated. It is a very good paper which can be used to alert intelligent people to the lmphcatlons of the computer age for privacy.
BAaA.~, P. Statement in {56}, pp. 119-135.
BAUER, K. G. Progress report to U. S. Public Health Service on contract PH 110-234 Joint Center tor Urban Studms of MIT and Harvard, Cambmdge, Mass., Jan. 1968. (Mimeographed) The report contains a nine-page section on the privacy issue as it relates to a proposed healtt~ iniormatlon system for the Boston area. ".. Right now our project has a unique opportunity to propose sateguards to privacy in the design of an information system at a time when the crucial operational decisions have not yet been made .. " The section discusses present safeguards to record disclosure Currently, privacy is not really insured, and only the excessive cost oi getring sensitive information (because of the unwmldiness of current noncomputerlzed systems) prevents almost all unauthorized access. ".. With proper safeguards computerization makes such reformation far easier to guard.."--why thin is the case is explained. A broad framework of new saieguar(ls, combining legal, technological, and administrative measures is being urged, and these are gone into very brmfly, with references to a tew papers The committee hopes during the coming months to define levels of security and to suggest specific access rules and rights of patients that should be kept in mind.
BERKELEY, E, C. Individual privacy and central computerized files. Comput. Automat. 15,10 (Oct. 1966), 7. This article discusses a pmvacy bill of lights lmtmlly suggested by Professor John Mc- Carthy m {38}.
BOWMAN, R.T. Statement in {56}.
BaIcTSON, R. C. Computers and prlvacy--llnphcatmns of a management tool }.)oc. SP-2953/ 001/00, System Development Corp., Santa Momca, Calif., 14 Mar. 1968.
BmcTSON, R. C. Some thoughts on the social ~mphcations of computers and privacy. Doc. SP-2953, System Development Corp., Santa Monlca, Calif., 25 Sept 1967. This is ~ reprint of a talk presented to the American Society for Industrial Security as part of a panel, "Problems In the Age oi the Computer," 13th annual seminar, 12-14 September 1967, Los Angeles, California. Briefly discussed are (1) the computer as an innovation and tool, along with some of the anxieties it creates, (2) a framework for an lnqmry into the problem, (3) responslbflltms of organizations and the establishment, (4) SOclahzation~the preparation of new members for entry into society, (5) some examples reflecting issues, and (6) possible remedies. In eleven short pages a quite readable discusslon, understandable to the lay person, is given. The framework suggested for investigation seems quite reasonable, and represents one of the few attempts to define the general problem before rushing off to tackle it. This structure considers information from the standpoint of (1) acquisition; (2) access; (3) dissemination; (4) retention- (5) revlstun, including updating, rejoinder and redress, (6) destruction; and (7) time cycles. Brief examples are given for acquisltmn and protection. A good case (and a brief one) for the existence of professional ethics codes is made, much better than the discussion in {41} by Parker. Five gmdelines for pubhc pohcy makers are suggested: (1) speclflcatmns of benefits; (2) catalogue of potential risks; (3) directory of preventive safeguards and controls; (4) inventory of antidotes and countermeasures, (5) index oi penalitles and sanctions. A very good paper for the layman and interested computer scmnt~st.
CALDWELL, L. K. (Ed.) Science, Technology, and Pubhc Pohcy~A ~elected and Annotated B,bhography (Volume 1). Dep. of Government, Indiana U., Bloomington, Ind., 1968, pp. 207- 210. Pages 207-210 comprise Section 6A, "Privacy," and contain an annotated bibhography of 13 entries. {40} and {22} are included, and {62} is based on two other entrms in the bibliography. The others deal with privacy as an aspect of human dignity, lie detectors, wiretapping, concepts oi consent and confidentiahty, and eavesdropping. The entire bibliography should be useiul to students of socmlogy Its sections are. 1. Blbhographms and Research Tools 2. Philosophy of Science 3 History of Science and Technology 4. Nature and Impact of Science and Technology 5. Science, Politics, and Government 6. Science, Technology, and the Law 7. Science, Education, and the Universities 8. Scientific and Techmcal Personnel 9 Scientific Organizations and Institutions 10. Organization and Management of Research and Development 11. Science, the Humanities, and Religion 12. Science and Society
CORBATO, F. J., A~D VYSSOTSKY, V. A. Introduction and overview of the Multlcs system. Proc. AFIPS 1965 Fall Joint Comput. Conf., Vol. 27, Pt. 1, Spartan Books, New York, pp 185-196.
Computer Research Corp. Time-sharing system scorecard, No. 5. Computer Research Corp., Newton, Mass, 1967.
Control Data Corp. Control Data 6400/6600 computer systems reference manual. Pub. No. 60100000, Control Data Corp., St. Paul, Minn., 1966.
CmSMAN, P. A. (Ed.). The Compatible Tzme- Sharing System--A Programmer's Guide (Second ed.). MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass., 1965.
DALEY, R. C., AND ~EUMANN, P. G. A generalpurpose file system for secondary storage. Proc. AFIPS 1965 Fall Joint Comput. Conf., Vol. 27, Pt.1, Spartan Books, New York, pp. 213-229. Tlus system places access control on the branches of a tree-structured file directory. Five modes of control are allowed--trap, read, execute, write, and append. The paper contains some of the best thinking yet about a practical, general solution to lower-level access control. One of the "Multics papers," this is must reading for data base system designers.
DAVIES, L. E Computer plan for personal "dossiers" in Santa Clara stils fears of invasion of privacy. The New York Tzmes, 1 Aug 1966, p. 27.
Jack B. Dennis , Earl C. Van Horn, Programming semantics for multiprogrammed computations, Communications of the ACM, v.9 n.3, p.143-155, March 1966[doi>10.1145/365230.365252]
DEUTSCH, L P Snooping by computer (letter to the editor). San Frane2sco Chromcle, 19 July 1968 A computer scientist expermnced in timesharing systems warns against misuse of computers In particular, he laments the lack of adequate protection in the California Department of Social Welf'~re data bank
Du.~.~, E. S., Ja. Statement in {56}, pp 92-95
Du.x'N, E S, Ja. The idea of a natmnal data center and the issue of personal pmvacy Amer Stat~s 21 (Feb. 1967), 21-27 An attempt by the author of the Bureau of the Budget report which recommended the estabhshment of a natmnal data center to correct "certain obvious misinterpretations and set forth more explicitly some vmws on the very important issue of personal privacy." He maintains that we can ~mmedlately begin to save much "harmless" data m a "statistical" data bank and that we have 10 or 15 years to figure out how to protect privacy The trade-offs for and against some sort of national data bank are more clearly delineated than in the original report
Duke Umverslty School of Law. Privacy. Law and Contemporary Problems 31, 2 (Spring 1966), 251-435 This is an entire issue of Law and Contemporary Problems devoted to privacy. Its contents are: Clark C. Havlghurst, "Foreword": Willmm M. Benny, "The Right to Privacy and American Law", Milton R Konwtz, "Privacy and the Law: A Philosophical Prelude"; Edward Shils, "Privacy Its Constitution and Vicissitudes"; Sidney M Jourard, "Some Psychological Aspects of Privacy"; Glenn Negley, "Philosophical Views on the Value of Privacy"; Harry Kalven, Jr, "Privacy m Tort Law--Were Warren and Brandeis Wrong?"; Kenneth L Karst. " 'The Files'. Legal Controls Over the Accuracy and Accessibility of Stored Personal Data", Joel F. Handler and Margaret K. Rosenheim, "Public Assistance and Juvenile Justme", William A Creech, "The Privacy of Government Employees." The ~ssue contains nothing on computer~ except m the Karst paper, which has about four pages on the effect of automation. The possible solutions to this aspect of the privacy problem are dealt with In superficial detaft, but relevant references are given for the reader interested in a more advanced techmcal discussmn
EARNEST, L. Private commumcatmn.
EaviN, S. J. The computer--indiwdual privacy. V~tal Speeches o} the Day 38, 14 (1 May 1967), 421-426 Senator Ervm discusses the impact of the computer on natmnal life In a speech to the American Management Association. He thmks that In order to avoid street legislative controls and the denial of government research and development funds, the industry must devise safeguards against improper data access, illegal tapping, and purloined data in shared systems. He hkes the idea of an industry ethical code.
FF.LDMAN, J A. Aspects of assocmtlve processlng. Tech. Note 1965-13, Lincoln Laboratory, MIT, Cambridge, Mass., 1965
GALLA.TI, R. R. J. The New York State ldentfficatlon and lntelhgence system. In {56}, pp. 159-168.
Robert M. Graham, Protection in an information processing utility, Communications of the ACM, v.11 n.5, p.365-369, May 1968[doi>10.1145/363095.363146]
HAaRISON, A. The problem of privacy in the computer age: an annotated bibliography Doc RM-5495-PR/RC, Rand Corp., Santa Monica, Calif., Dec. 1967. This is a must document. This 300-entry bibliography IS well-annotated and indexed by author as well as by each of the following categories, cashless-checkless society, timesharing, data banks, media, social scientists' views, bill of rights, electronic eavesdropping and wiretapping, computer utilities, Congresslonal view of privacy, legal views, system security, technologists' views.
HsIAo, D. K A File System }or a Problem Solving Facdity. Ph.D. Dlss. m Electrical Engineering, U. of Pennsylvama, Philadelphia, Pa. 1968. An ~mportant new concept is introduced and ~mplemented on the file system at Penn. This concept, that of the authority item, allows control wlthin files over data access. Each field in a file can be protected from unauthorized access. Data records need not be reprocessed if a change in a record's protection status or in a user's level of accessibility occurs The capability to read only, write only, etc., goes with aa authority item and not with a record. Protected records are completely nonexistent as far as the unauthorized user Is concerned. The system as currently implemented is dependent on the file structure (multlllsts). However, the idea of authority items is not and is an important new concept. This thesis should be examined by those who have the responsibility for access control m their own hie systems. It appears to be the first working system with protection below the file level.
HUMPHREY, T. A. Large core storage utihzatlon m theory and in practice. Proc. AFIPS 1967 Spring Joint Comput. Conf., Vol. 30, Thompson Book Co., Washington, D.C, pp. 719-727.
IBM System/360 Model 67 tunctlonal characteristics. Form A27-2719-0, IBM Corp., Kingston, N. Y., 1967.
IBM System/360 principles of operation. Form A22-6821-2, IBM Corp., Poughkeepsie, N. Y., 1966.
JANsSEN, R F. Administration studies plan to generalize data, hopes to avoid "police state" mlage. Wall Street J., 11 Nov 1966, p. 6.
KAYsEN, C. Data banks and dossiers. The Pubhc Interest (Spring 1967), also in {57}, p. 265. The case "for" a national data bank, in the light of the mauling this proposal got before the Gallagher subcommittee.
Victor R. Lesser, A multi-level computer organization designed to separate data-accessing from the computation, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 1968
LmKSON, C. P. The right of privacy m the computer age. IEEE Comput. Group News ?,, 1 (jan. 1968), 13-17. A nontechnical five-page paper which defines privacy, examines some historical court cases dealing with it, and tries to pinpoint current legislative trends in this area. ".. Legislation and court decisions can catch up to the state of the art." A good general overview from a nontechnical standpoint, the article is well-referenced.
MAcDOUGALL,, lVl. H. Simulation of an ECS- based operating system. Proc AFIPS 1967 Spring Joint Comput. Conf., Vol. 30, Thompson Book Co, Wasnlngton, D C., pp. 735-741.
McCAaTHY, J. Information. Sc~ Amer. 215, 3 (Sept. 1966), 64-73. McCarthy, in a very good survey article on compu*.ation, proposes a computer bill of rights which would help to guarantee privacy in computer-based data files
McLAUGHLIN, F.X. Private communication.
MICHAEL, D. ~. Speculations on the relation of the computer to individual freedom and the right to privacy. George Washzngton Law Rev. 83(1964-65), 270-286. Between now and 1984, business and government will use extraordinary advances in computer technology to file and collate "personal" facts about private citizens and even to telemeter the populace. What are the iraplacations for tradmonal ideas of freedom and pnvacy'~ ~lll such progress be met with constitutional objections or with public acquiescence ?---Author's Abstract This well-written non~ecnnlcal paper makes some valid and oIt-overlooked points. It outlines factors which, in the past, have made privacy invasion diihcult (1) data available but uncollected and uncollated, (2) data not recorded with precision and variety necessary to gain new or deeper insight into the private person, (3) difficulty of keeping track of a particular person in a large and highly mobile population; (4) difficulty of access to already filed data about the private person; (5) dlculty of detecting and interpreting potentially self-reveahng private lnlormation within available data. Points for a central data bank are validly and tellingly made, and the point is made that now, as in the past, people may give up some freedom to protect or enhance another freedom. Ways in which corruptible programmers may become privy quite legally to privileged information are discussed. A short and worthwhile paper.
Donn B. Parker, Rules of ethics in information processing, Communications of the ACM, v.11 n.3, p.198-201, March 1968[doi>10.1145/362929.362987]
PARKER, R. W. The SABRE system. Datamat~on 11, 9 (Sept. 1965), 49-52.
PETERS, B. Security considerations in a multiprogrammed computer system. Proc. AFIPS 1967 Spring Joint Comput. Conf., Vol. 30, Thompson Book Co., Washington, D.C., pp. 283-286. A specific list of desirable and necessary security safeguards for hie systems is given. Hardware, software, and administrative safeguards are discussed
PETERSEN, H. E., AND TURN, R. System lmphcations of information privacy. Proc. AFIPS 1967 Spring Joint Comput. Conf, Vol. 30, Thompson Book Co., Washington, D.C., pp. 291-300. (Also available as Doc. P-3504, Rand Corp., Santa Momca, Calif., Apr. 1967.) "Various questions of providing information privacy for remotely accessible on-hne, timeshared information systems are explored .. A range of protective countermeasures is discussed, and their choice and implication consldered. It appears possible to counter a given level of threat without unreasonable expenditures of resources. The protective techniques discussed..include: shielding to reduce electromagnetic emanations; use of once-only passwords for access control; application of privacy transformations to conceal reformation in user-processor communications and in data files; recording of attempted penetrations; and systematic verification of the hardware and software mtegnty."--Authors' abstract This is must reading. It contains a detailed and well-written discussion of threats to file security and countermeasures against these threats. In partmular, problems at the processor, the files, the terminals, and the communication lines are discussed. A good blbhography is given.
PaOSSF~, W.L. Privacy. Cah}orma Law Rev. ~8,3 (Aug. 1960), 383-423. A review of court cases deahng with a "right to privacy." The review appears to be comprehensive (to this layman at law). The author, then Dean of the University of California Law School at Berkeley, contends that four distinct kinds of privacy invasion cases can be described: (1) intrusion upon seclusion or solitude, or into private affairs; (2) public disclosure of embarrassing private facts; (3) publicity which places the plaintiff in a false light m the public eye, (4) appropriation, for the defendant's advantage, of the plaintiff's name or likeness. The article is well-written and interesting. As a final filhp, I can not conclude without praising the author for making me aware of "a possible nomination for the all-time prize law review title, in the note 'Crimmatlon of Peeping Toms and Other Men of Vision,' Ark Law Rev. 5(1951), 388."
PRYwES, N. S. A storage retrieval system for real-time problem solving. Rep. No. 66-05, U. of Pennsylvania Moore School of Electrical Engineering, Philadelphia, Pa., 1966.
RAMEY, J.W. Computer information sharingthreat to individual freedom. Proc. of the Amer. Documentatmn Institute, 1967, pp. 273- 277. This paper discusses, for a lay audience, why centralized data banks threaten privacy. It proposes hcensmg of computer professionals, much as CPA's are licensed now. It also proposes legislation to allow an individual to respect his entire dossier, delete inaccuracies via court order, and prohibit transfer of information identifiable with himself to a linked data bank without hm express consent.
REIch, C.A. Statement in {56}.
SchwARTz, J. I. The SDC time-sharing system. Datamation 10,11 (Nov. 1964), 28-31.
SchwARTZ, J. i. The SDC time-sharing system. Datamation 10,12 (Dec. 1964), 51-55.
Scientffic Data Systems. SDS 940 computer reference manual. Pub. No. 90 06 40A, Scientific Data Systems, Santa Monica, Calif., Aug. 1966.
S~A~No~, C. E. Communication theory of secrecy systems. Bell Syst. Tech. J. 28, 4 (Oct. 1949), 656-715. A mathematical theory of secrecy systems is developed and presented in a most readable form. First, basic mathematical structure of secrecy systems is dealt with. Examples of various types of ciphers are given. Measures of "how secret" a system is are introduced, and it is shown that "perfect" secrecy is possible but requires, if the number of messages is finite, the same number of possible keys. A measure of "noise" in a message is given and strongly ideal systems where this cannot be decreased by the cryptanalyst are discussed. Finally, an analysis of the basic weaknesses of secrecy systems is made. This leads to methods for constructing systems which reqmre a large amount of work to solve. Finally, a certain incompatibility among the various desirable qualities of secrecy systems is discussed. An excellent paper, and doubly so for the nonfamthearted in mathematics (particularly probability and modern algebra).
Social workers balk at computers. San Francisco Chromcle, 16 July 1968, p. 2. This newspaper article describes how over 20 state social workers picketed the state department of social welfare m protest over a new departmental regulation requiring them to supply computers with "intimate facts" about the mental illness of their clients. The data was linked to the client's socml security number.
SQUIRES, B. E., JR. Statement in {56}.
ST~, J. The computer data bank wdl it kill your freedom ? Look (25 June 1968) ~ 27-29. A short, very well-written popular survey of computers and privacy. Some well-detailed accounts of uses computer data banks are being put to today are presented.
U. S. Congress. The computer and the invasion of privacy--hearings before a subcommittee of the Committee on Government Operations, House of Representatives, 89th Congress, Second Session (Gallagher Report), U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., 26-28 July 1966. Pro and con on a national "statistmal" data bank--the full testimony.
U. S. Congress. Computer privacy--hearings before the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure of the Committee on the Judiciary, United States Senate, 90th Congress, First Session (Long Report), U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C, 14-15 March 1967. The full testimony before the Long subcommittee on computer privacy.
WARRURTON, P. Letter to the editor. Comput. Automat. 16,5 (May 1967), 8. A "Resolution on the National Data Center and Personal Privacy" proposed by the Washington, D.C. Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery is glven
W^aw, W. H. Security and privacy m computer systems. Proc. AFIPS 1967 Spring Joint Comput. Conf., Vol. 30, Thompson Book Co., Washington, D.C., pp. 279-282. This is a general outline of the major vulnerabilities of time-sharing systems which handle sensitive data. It also served as an introductory paper for the session on privacy at the conference.
WATSON, T. J., JR. Technology and privacy. Speech given to Commonwealth Club of California, Hotel St. Francis, San Francisco, Calif., 5 Apr. 1968. An address by the Chairman of the Board of IBM to the Commonwealth Club of California. Watson discusses in general what the privacy problem is, advantages and dlsadvantages of centrahzed data banks, and possible steps toward solving the problem. Suggestions are given for legal, ethical, and technological safeguards.
W~ISSMAN, C. Programming protection: what do you want to pay? SDC Mag. 10,7-8 (July, Aug. 1967), System Development Corp., Santa Momca, Calif.
WESTIN, A. F. Privacy and Freedom. Atheneum, New York, 1967. A comprehensive, well-written book on the relationship of privacy to freedom, tracing "privacy rights" from 1776 to the present. The emphasis Is on the present and the future. The book has four parts: (1) the functions of privacy and surveillance in socmty, (2) new tools for invading privacy, (3) American society's struggle for controls (five case studies), and (4) policy chomes for the 1970's. Each part is copiously documented, and in addition there are four blbllographms at the end: the functions of privacy, the new technology, the struggle for controls, and privacy m American law and policy. The section on computer technology and poss~bihtms for it by 1975 Is quite enhghtemng. Numerous legal decisions are cited m this seminal work. It Is must reading for those seriously concerned with the general problem of privacy.
WESTIN, A.F. The snooping machine. Playboy 15, 5 (May 1968), 130ft. A good review of initial and revised ideas on a natmnal data bank. The advantages and dmadvantages are set forth in this artmle in a nontechnical (T) publicatmn. An interestmg account of the automated adventures of a mythical citizen in 1975 is given
BINGHAM, HAaVEY W. Security techniques for EDP of multilevel classified informatmn. Doc. RADC-TR-65-415, Rome Air Development Center, Gnffiss Air Force Base, New York, Dec. 1965. (Unclassified) The study objective was to develop hardware and software techniques for security (need-toknow) control of on4ine users and programmers in multiprogramming, multlprocessing EDP systems of apparent future development. Hardware techniques recommended include: (1) processors having two modes of operation, interrupt entry into control mode mwhich privileged instructmns are executable, flag bits for identification and control of memory words, and address checks against access-differentiated memory bounds; (2) parity checks on mtermodule mformatmn transfers; (3) input/output control processors, which establish and verify peripheral unit connections, check memory addresses against bounds, and confirm security content of record headers being transferred; and (4) bulk file control of physical record integrity, and lock control over write permission and flag bit setting to permit supervisor estabhshment of control programs. Software techniques reside in the executive control program and are executed in control mode and ldentffied by flag bits. Security routines are described and evaluated which construct, protect, and check access requests against user security control profiles, verify memory bounds and memory blanking, and provide security indicators for input/output. The integrated techniques are apphed to control users and system programmers in an advanced modular system. Retrofit of most of the recommended techmques to an existing data processor (the Burroughs D825 Modular Data Processing System) is feasible. An external retrofit unit is described which prorides control mode and privileged instructmns for single-mode processors.--Author's Abstract This paper is the final report of an eightmonth study program conducted by the Burroughs Corporation for the US Air Force. It is a highly technical description of a proposed multlprogramming, multiprocessing, on-line computer system designed with securtty of information m mind. A very detailed report, it deals with techmcal aspects of a computer system operating m a secure environment; the report does not touch on cryptography, long-distance communications problems, electromagnetic radiation monitoring, physical security, equipment wiretapping or physical modificatmns, personnel problems, or admimstrative procedures. Recommendatmns made by the study are described m the author's abstract above. In additioP the reviewer notes the following which may be of interest. Physical keys assocrated with a user are recommended (p. 7). The 'system requires the user (or an operator with a master key) to be physmally present at a terminal before input or output can occur. An execute-only bit in each word Is recommended (p. 9). This is turned on in routines of the operating system, thus guaranteeing its integrity. The amount of hardware over and above that required for a traditional system is detailed in terms of "equivalent flip-flops" in Table 2, p. 56. Software security techniques are summarized on pp. 71-72. An attempt is made to gauge the costs of these techniques on pp. 99--100, the units of measurement bemg additional instructmn executions necessary and additional storage space used. Ample justification is not given.for these estimates, which tend to be plausible but low. A detailed description of startup procedures for this security-oriented system is given on pp. 77--80. Tables of all hardware and software security techniques which were considered m the study (not only the ones recommended), along with their application, what they protect against, and additional comments, are given on pp. 119-127. Pages 101-112 descmbe the detailed interfaces recommended for security between terminal units, bulk files, and the input/output control processor.
DUEKER, K.J. Data sharing and confidentlahty in urban and regional planmng. Proc. Urban Inform. Syst. Assoc. Fifth Annual Conf., Garden City, N.Y., 8 Sept. 1967. A good overview for statisticians, urban planners, and the interested layman of the computer privacy problem. The first 15 pages present a good summary of the computer invasion of privacy literature. The latter 11 pages present imphcations of the National Data Center proposal to planners at the state and local levels. The latter part will interest urban planners particularly, while the former is of general interest. This easily readable paper is not at all technical. Some of the references do not exist In the volumes cited.
EvANs, D. C., AND LE CLERC, J. Y Address mapping and the control of access in an interactive computer. Proc. AFIPS 1967 Spring Joint Comput. Conf., Vol. 30, Thompson Book Co., Washington, D.C., pp. 23-30. An idea for extended segmentation hardware is presented. This hardware would control access paths at execution time, permit selective input and output operations under actual control of interactive users, and eliminate the eed for relocation of programs at load time. Access control is by hardware at the segment level. The system has not been implemented, although "the hardware and software problems have been analyzed extensively," according to the paper, in the Ph.D. dissertation of the second author. The ideas on access control, whether eventually done in hardware or software, are steps in the right direction.
Sawwa, J., AND SCHF_,CItTEI:t, H. Computers, privacy, and the national data center" the responsibflity of social scientists Amer. Psychol. ogust 28, 11 (Nov. 1968). A paper for social scientists discussing the advantages to be gained by creation of a national data center and the pitfalls vis-a-vis privacy. The paper gives a good history of the proposal for a natmnal data center and an excellent vmw of what stage the proposal is in currently (August 1968). It presents an excellent suggestion, namely, that only random samples of respondents be kept (one in 1000 samples are adequate for most analyses in the social sciences).
U. S Congress. Privacy and the national data bank concept House Committee on Government Operations, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., 2 Aug. 1968. A very excellent review of the national data bank concept, which explains why such a system would be most helpful in certain areas and how it poses grave threats to privacy if not carefully designed. Imtml actions by the Bureau of the Budget to study the feasibility of a central, computer-based data bank are reviewed very briefly, as are the hearings of the House of Representatives Special Subcommittee on Invasmn of Privacy. The Corn= mittee on Government Operations notes that "the reports commissioned by the Bureau of the Budget do not contain well-thought-out theoretical or practical procedures necessary to insure privacy" and that the Budget Bureau "has not come to understand fully the importance of privacy m the National Data Center system." It suggests m detail procedures, safeguards, and alternatives to be considered in formulating specific proposals for a national data bank. These can be applied to any data base of sensitive information and should be quite carefully considered by designers of any such data bank, public or private. This 34=page document is a gem and an absolute must for those concerned with the specter of a national data bank.
Santa Clara (California) County. LOGIC User's Guide for Terminal Inquiry Systems. General Services Agency, Data Processing Center, Santa Clara County, Calif., 1 Aug. 1967.
