In practice, any database management system sometimes needs reorganization, that is, a change in some aspect of the logical and/or physical arrangement of a database. In traditional practice, many types of reorganization have required denying access to a database (taking the database offline) during reorganization. Taking a database offline can be unacceptable for a highly available (24-hour) database, for example, a database serving electronic commerce or armed forces, or for a very large database. A solution is to reorganize online (concurrently with usage of the database, incrementally during users' activities, or interpretively). This article is a tutorial and survey on requirements, issues, and strategies for online reorganization. It analyzes the issues and then presents the strategies, which use the issues. The issues, most of which involve design trade-offs, include use of partitions, the locus of control for the process that reorganizes (a background process or users' activities), reorganization by copying to newly allocated storage (as opposed to reorganizing in place), use of differential files, references to data that has moved, performance, and activation of reorganization. The article surveys online strategies in three categories of reorganization. The first category, maintenance, involves restoring the physical arrangement of data instances without changing the database definition. This category includes restoration of clustering, reorganization of an index, rebalancing of parallel or distributed data, garbage collection for persistent storage, and cleaning (reclamation of space) in a log-structured file system. The second category involves changing the physical database definition; topics include construction of indexes, conversion between B+-trees and linear hash files, and redefinition (e.g., splitting) of partitions. The third category involves changing the logical database definition. Some examples are changing a column's data type, changing the inheritance hierarchy of object classes, and changing a relationship from one-to-many to many-to-many. The survey encompasses both research and commercial implementations, and this article points out several open research topics. As highly available or very large databases continue to become more common and more important in the world economy, the importance of online reorganization is likely to continue growing.