Social influence analysis has shown great potential for strategic marketing decision. It is well known that people influence one another based on both their social connections and the social activities that they have engaged in the past. In this article, we develop an innovative and high-performance social influence based graph clustering framework with four unique features. First, we explicitly distinguish social connection based influence (self-influence) and social activity based influence (co-influence). We compute the self-influence similarity between two members based on their social connections within a single collaboration network, and compute the co-influence similarity by taking into account not only the set of activities that people participate but also the semantic association between these activities. Second, we define the concept of influence-based similarity by introducing a unified influence-based similarity matrix that employs an iterative weight update method to integrate self-influence and co-influence similarities. Third, we design a dynamic learning algorithm, called SI-Cluster, for social influence based graph clustering. It iteratively partitions a large social collaboration network intoKclusters based on both the social network itself and the multiple associated activity information networks, each representing a category of activities that people have engaged. To make the SI-Clusteralgorithm converge fast, we transform sophisticated nonlinear fractional programming problem with respect to multiple weights into a straightforward nonlinear parametric programming problem of single variable. Finally, we develop an optimization technique of diagonalizable-matrix approximation to speed up the computation of self-influence similarity and co-influence similarities. Our SI-Cluster-Opt significantly improves the efficiency of SI-Cluster on large graphs while maintaining high quality of clustering results. Extensive experimental evaluation on three real-world graphs shows that, compared to existing representative graph clustering algorithms, our SI-Cluster-Optapproach not only achieves a very good balance between self-influence and co-influence similarities but also scales extremely well for clustering large graphs in terms of time complexity while meeting the guarantee of high density, low entropy and low Davies--Bouldin Index.