picoTrans is a prototype system that introduces a novel icon-based paradigm for cross-lingual communication on mobile devices. Our approach marries a machine translation system with the popular picture book. Users interact with picoTrans by pointing at pictures as if it were a picture book; the system generates natural language from these icons and the user is able to interact with the icon sequence to refine the meaning of the words that are generated. When users are satisfied that the sentence generated represents what they wish to express, they tap a translate button and picoTrans displays the translation. Structuring the process of communication in this way has many advantages. First, tapping icons is a very natural method of user input on mobile devices; typing is cumbersome and speech input errorful. Second, the sequence of icons which is annotated both with pictures and bilingually with words is meaningful to both users, and it opens up a second channel of communication between them that conveys the gist of what is being expressed. We performed a number of evaluations of picoTrans to determine: its coverage of a corpus of in-domain sentences; the input efficiency in terms of the number of key presses required relative to text entry; and users' overall impressions of using the system compared to using a picture book. Our results show that we are able to cover 74&percnt; of the expressions in our test corpus using a 2000-icon set; we believe that this icon set size is realistic for a mobile device. We also found that picoTrans requires fewer key presses than typing the input and that the system is able to predict the correct, intended natural language sentence from the icon sequence most of the time, making user interaction with the icon sequence often unnecessary. In the user evaluation, we found that in general users prefer using picoTrans and are able to communicate more rapidly and expressively. Furthermore, users had more confidence that they were able to communicate effectively using picoTrans.